copy edit pt. 2: Statements topics (#92)
microsoft/qsharp-language: Specifications/Language/2_Statements/QuantumMemoryManagement.md

# Quantum memory management

A program always starts without qubits, meaning you cannot pass values of type `Qubit` as entry point arguments. This restriction is intentional since the purpose of Q# is to express and reason about a program in its entirety.
Instead, a program allocates and releases qubits, or quantum memory, as it goes.
In this regard, Q# models the quantum computer as a qubit heap.

Rather than supporting separate *allocate* and *release* statements for quantum memory, 

> Q# supports quantum memory allocation in the form of *block statements*, where the memory is accessible only within the scope of that block statement. Attempting to access that memory after the statement terminates results in a runtime exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q# supports quantum memory allocation in the form of *block statements*, where the memory is accessible only within the scope of that block statement. The statement block can be implicitly defined when allocating qubits for the duration of the current scope, as described in more detail in the sections about the `use` and `borrow` statements. Attempting to access the allocated qubits after the statement terminates results in a runtime exception.
```

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer: Let's remove this - I believe this is largely obsolete at this time.
```suggestion
```

> > Ensuring that qubits cannot escape their scope facilitates reasoning about quantum dependencies and how the quantum parts of the computation can impact the continuation of the program. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> >An additional benefit of this scope limitation is that qubits cannot be allocated and never released, which avoids a class of common bugs in manual memory management languages without the overhead of qubit garbage collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

}
```

The qubits are guaranteed to be in a |0⟩ state upon allocation. They are released at the end of the scope and are required to either be in a |0⟩ state upon release, or measured right beforehand. This requirement is not compiler-enforced since this would require a symbolic evaluation that quickly gets prohibitively expensive. When running on simulators, the requirement can be runtime enforced. On quantum processors, the requirement cannot be runtime enforced; an unmeasured qubit may be reset to |0⟩ via unitary transformation. Failing to do so results in incorrect behavior. 

The `use` statement allocates the qubits from the quantum processor's free qubit heap and returns them to the heap no later than the end of the scope in which the qubits are bound.

## Borrow statement

> The `borrow` statement creates qubits available for temporary use and do not need to be in a specific state.

Reviewer: It doesn't create anything. It grants access to them. 
```suggestion
The `borrow` statement grants access to qubits that are already allocated but not currently in use. These qubits can be in an arbitrary state and need to be in the same state again when the borrow statement terminates.
```

> Some quantum algorithms can use qubits without relying on their exact state or even if they are unentangled with the rest of the system. That is, they require extra qubits temporarily, but they can ensure that those qubits are returned exactly to their original state, independent of which state that was. 

Reviewer: This changed the meaning and is now a rather odd statement. 
```suggestion
Some quantum algorithms can use qubits without relying on their exact state, and without requiring that they are unentangled with the rest of the system. That is, they require extra qubits temporarily, but they can ensure that those qubits are returned exactly to their original state, independent of which state that was. 
```
